#summary This is a brief overview of the Termite Editor.

= Overview =

Termite is an OpenStreetMap editor that is designed for indoor maps. It is a fully functional editor that can edit outdoor data also.

First a few disclaimers:

*Termite is currently in early testing.* Any feedback is appreciated to improve it. And, patience may be required in using it.

*OpenStreetMap currently does not have a standard for making indoor maps.* Termite uses one of the proposed mapping standards. It is also designed so the underlying model used can be changed.

*Termite as currently shipped is NOT connected to the live database. It is connected to a dev database. This database currently has little data. In many cases you will be starting from scratch.

= Getting Started =
 
You need to following to get started with Termite:
 * the java application file (jar)
 * configuration files needed for the program
 * java 6 or later runtime (JRE)
 * a username and password to edit OSM data *on the server http://api06.dev.openstreetmap.org/ *
  ** This is the dev server. You can create an account from the URL.

_give instructions for starting program on different platforms_


= Using the Program =

=== UI Elements ===
 * Menu Bar
 * Toolbar
 * Left Panel
  ** Content Tree - This lets you select the map area to view, which may be the outdoors or a building level.
  ** Feature Type Tree - This lets you select the feature type. The feature type tells the type of object. For example, the feature type may be "highway=primary". See more on the feature type below.
  ** Property Panel - This shows properties of the selected object. The properties can be edited from here.
 * Map Panel - This holds the map.
 * Supplemental Panel - This contains tabs with additional functionality.
  ** Map Layers Tab - This tab lets you control the opacity of the different visible layers, which is useful when tracing objects.

===== Feature Type =====
In OpenStreetMap objects have key-value pair properties. The object type, such as "highway=primary" is stored in the properties. In Termite, it is possible to set the type by using the feature level tree. If you select an object in the tree, the next node or way you draw will inherit the necessary properties to make it that type of object. 

If you want to add an object that is not in the tree, you can set the feature type to be the root of the tree, "object". Then, you can add your own properties using the property panel. 

=== Checking Out Data ===
When you start the program, the map will be empty. (There is currently no saving of the editor state.) The program is in checkout search mode, which lets you find a region on the map where you download data form the OSM database to edit.

From the map menu, you can select "Base Map" to open a background map.

Then you can navigate using pan and zoom to find the region you would like to open. *NOTE - the search to help find a location is not implemented.*

When you find the area you want to check out, select a rectangle window and then press "download data" to check out map data. 

=== Editing ===

Once you check out data a toolbar is enabled that controls the edit mode. The modes are:

===== Select Mode =====
In Select Mode use the mouse to select objects. A secondary toolbar shows a list of commands that con be done with the selected data.

*NOTE - Generally, dragging the mouse is not used for editing. Actions are done by single clicking the mouse.*

Toggle Buttons:
 * Select - lets you select a way or a node
 * Move - Let's you move the selected object, to the location of the next mouse click. *SHORTCUT* - press the keyboard 'm' key instead of using the toolbar button.

Actions on Selected Object
 * Delete - Deletes the selected object(s)
 * Remove Node - If you select a way, you can select nodes within the way. These nodes can be removed by pressing the remove node button.
 * Change Feature Type - This sets the feature type of the object to be the selected feature type (such as 'wall').
 * Create Level - This should be done on objects in the outdoors. It creates an indoor level for the associated outdoor object, usually a building. See below for more information on creating a level.

===== Node Tool =====
This mode allows you to create a node object. The node object is created with a feature type given by the selected feature type in the feature type tree.

The node will appear as a small circle.

===== Way Tool =====
The way tool allows you to create a way object. Clicking the map will add a node at the given location. Or, if a node is clicked, that node will be added to the way. The feature type for the way is given by the selected feature type in the feature type tree.

Each time the map is clicked, a node is added to the active way. The active way can be ended the following ways:
 * double click (NOT IMPLEMENTED)
 * press the ESC key (CURRENTLY THE ONLY METHOD)
 * close a way (NOT IMPLEMENTED)

If you want to add points to an existing way, go to Select Mode and select the way. By default points will be added to the end of the way. However, you can select one of the end nodes within the way (either the first or the last) and then switch to the Way Tool. Now, nodes drawn will be added to the selected end of the way.

If you draw a way with the wrong feature type, you can change the feature type by selecting the object and pressing the "Change Feature Type" button in the toolbar. This will set the feature type to the type selected in the feature type tree.

= User Interface =

The following are the UI elements:

=== Menus ===
 * File
  ** Commit - Commit the current changes to the server
  ** Clear Data - Discard and edits and downloaded data
  ** Quit - Exit the program

 * Edit
  ** Undo - Undo the last map edit. NOTE there are some things that are not controlled in undo/redo, for example geocoding a source image.
  ** Redo - Redo the last map edit

 * Map
  ** Base Map - This opens a base map for the, such as aerial imagery.
  ** Open Source - This is used to open a reference image that can be geocoded and traced.

=== Toolbars ===

--------------------------------
Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages