Download Mode

 * Click mouse to start the area selection
 * Click mouse to complete the area selection
 * Use the clear key or press [esc] to clear the selectoin
 * Press download to download data in the selected region

Select Mode
 
 * Click a node or way to select it.
 * Use the [shift] key to select multiple items
 * To move the selected object(s), press the [m] key or the move button
 * To add a node select and move a virtual node at a segment midpoint
 * Additional functions on selected objects:
  ** Delete - deletes the selected objects
  ** Remove Node - Remvoes one or more nodes from a way. To select a node in a way, first selecting a way and then selecting a node from that way. 
  ** Change Feature Type - When this button is pressed, the selected feature(s) are changed to the currently selected object type.
  ** Create Level - Creates a new level for the selected object. This is typically done on buildings.

Node Tool Mode

 * Draw a node by clicking the map
  ** The currently selected object type will be used for the node.

Way Tool Mode

 * Draw a way by clicking the map for each node.
  ** The currently selected object type will be used for the way.
 * End a way by closing it, double clicking or pressing the [esc] key.
 * Draw on an existing way by selecting the way in Select Mode and then entering Way Tool Mode.
  ** By default nodes will be added to the end of the way.
  ** Add to a selected end of the way by selecting the way and then selecting the desired end node before entering the Way Tool Mode.

Geocode Mode
This mode goecodes a source image for tracing.

 * Open a source image from the Map >> Source Images menu.
 * 


 

 